uh so we're going to try something a
little bit different today um on stream
what we're going to try to do is
actually like do sort of like a
psychoanalysis of squid game and then if
we have time we'll do we'll review some
reddit posts hopefully we'll do that
so here's what um
so here's what we're gonna do and so
we're gonna do something like a
psychoanalysis of squid game there are a
lot of disclaimers that i have to toss
out
so the first is that um you know i think
it's kind of
i think this i'm doing it for fun and
it's sort of like more for entertainment
and entertainment than education
so what we're going to kind of do is
like i'm going to give you guys a list
of like diagnoses and see if you all can
pair up like which character in the game
has what diagnosis
and so this is like very irresponsible
in some ways so like let me just explain
a couple of things the first is that to
actually obtain a diagnosis is an
in-depth and like careful process so
when i do a real diagnostic interview
with like a human being it takes like 90
minutes to two hours i'll ask somewhere
between 40 and 100 questions and so
there's like a lot of like specificity
and carefulness that goes into it so
today what we're going to do is just
kind of slap diagnosis on people to sort
of illustrate certain points because i
do think that
part of the reason that i wanted to do
this in terms of like even though it's
you know a little bit irresponsible like
people will um
but i i do think that there's a value to
it because i think there's a big stigma
around mental illness and i think that
um when po when popular media like
portrays mental illness i think it can
actually be useful because it
illustrates like certain points and
helps people like understand or maybe
even identify
with some of the characters and if you
identify with some of the characters or
some of the traits sound like they kind
of feel like you i would strongly
encourage you to go see a licensed
mental health professional and like
actually get help
so the other thing to understand about
squid game is that it's like fiction
right so not only are we not asking them
questions but we're also like
it's all like everything is like blown
up by like 10 times so things are more
extreme it's a very like unrealistic
scenario and i think a lot of the
portrayals of like mental health and
diagnoses are sort of like exacerbated
or exaggerated so let's just keep that
in mind as well the third thing is that
when i use the phrase psychoanalysis
we're not talking about um
actual psychoanalysis so that's like a
deep process that has a lot of different
theories basically what we're going to
be doing is like kind of hypothesizing
about different diagnoses but
colloquially when people talk about that
they use the term psychoanalysis so
we're not actually doing psychoanalysis
here it's just
that's not what we're doing
but overall uh and then the last
disclaimer is that you know there's
gonna be like huge and massive spoilers
for this so if you guys have not seen
squid game like don't
don't watch this like
go do something else and come back and
watch it so we're not going to hold back
on the spoilers at all i'm going to
assume that everyone here has seen it
part of the reason i wanted to do it now
is because if you guys have seen it
you'll like it'll be fresh in your mind
so i'm going to talk about particular
scenes okay so we we good
um yeah if you want to go watch it right
now like now is the time
so uh
so let's get started okay so this is
what we're gonna do all right i'm gonna
go ahead and start by giving you guys
kind of a list of diagnoses
or like situ like it's not necessarily
diagnoses so what we're going to try to
do is pair up some of these like
conditions or psychological phenomenon
with different
fictional characters okay
so our our categories are going to be
like depression bipolar anxiety
addiction and attachment disorder ptsd
reaction formation or suppression
actually
um so these are like defense mechanisms
sociopathy and borderline personality
disorder okay so if you guys are not
familiar with what these are that's
actually like perfectly fine it's not
that big of a deal
for those of you that are a little bit
familiar with this uh you know i
encourage you to kind of think a little
bit about
what you know who you think has what
okay
so let's go ahead and get started
so we're gonna start
with
um so what i'm gonna do is like we're
going to start actually at the top so
we're going to start with the main
character and once again i'm going to
butcher these pronunciations so i
apologize so this is like the main
character of the the show his name is
gihon right
so let's just talk a little bit about
gihon or the you know the english
uh
you know what whatever that's sort of
how they spell his name so this is a guy
who's like first of all he's broke right
so he doesn't have a whole lot of money
and then like the first thing that he
like in the first episode what he does
is he steals his mom's credit card
withdraws cash
takes his money to like a horse racing
place loses some money
bets again and then wins right so then
he's thrilled he's got a bunch of cash
um he
is divorced and like makes big promises
to his daughter and like his daughter
sort of isn't disappointed when he fails
to deliver on his promises right she
kind of knows what her dad is like she
knows her dad is unreliable she knows
that he's gonna like make big promises
and not live up to them
and so then what happens is gohun like
joins the squid game out of like
desperation right and then he goes
through the squid game and once again
huge spoiler alert he wins and so then
he gets this huge pile of money in
theory all of his problems should be
solved and despite the fact that all of
his problems are solved he like
is a bum for a year drinks booze
and then kind of randomly like goes and
colors his hair
and then doesn't kind of know what to do
with himself and he's going to go see
his kid he's going to go like live a
normal life and on the verge of actually
boarding the airplane and like you know
going to see his kid and maybe living a
regular life
he turns around and decides to walk away
from the airplane
[Music]
and the presumption is that he's
actually going to join like squid game
round two
so like the diagnosis here is absolutely
like gambling addiction okay so this is
a guy that um you know just can't stop
so like despite the fact that he you
know it seems like he has a regular
um
kind of like body that he goes and
gambles with
he's broke probably part of the reason
that he's broke is it appears that he's
had like several jobs but he can't like
store money away it seems like he's you
know failed to show up for his daughter
like several times and yet we like him
right so he's like the protagonist we're
kind of rooting for him like we feel
sorry for him despite the fact that he's
got this like crippling gambling
addiction that despite the fact that
he's got a bunch of money and can
basically like afk for the rest of his
life he actually decides that he's gonna
go and like play again
so a couple of important features of of
uh gambling pathologic gambling or
behavioral addictions so one of them is
impulsivity and the second one we're
going to talk about is like future
discounting so the brains of people with
behavioral addictions tend to be like
more impulsive so they have difficulty
restraining their impulses and they also
have difficulty
um sort of planning for the future and
they tend to choose
short-term gain over like long-term gain
so there are experiments that have been
done in people who have behavioral
addictions
and what we've discovered is that if you
take someone with a behavioral addiction
you're like i'm gonna give you one
dollar now or ten dollars tomorrow the
person with a behavioral addiction is
more likely to choose one dollar now
than someone who doesn't have a
behavioral addiction who will go for
like the long-term gain and we kind of
see this in his life right like no
matter like what he what his situation
is he's going to go for that you know
high-yield short-term play like
irrespective of the situation
i think there are a couple of other
things that are really cool that they
demonstrate uh in this show and i i
really like the way that they portray
addiction because a lot of times people
with addiction get
um they actually get like
blamed for their addiction so for many
years addiction was kind of viewed as
like
uh you know a moral deficiency or like
it's their fault and people can just get
up and like just stop drinking or just
stop gambling bro
and so it can be it's sort of viewed as
a moral disease and i think that if you
look at episode six in particular right
so like the reason that episode six is
so powerful is because we know that
giuhun is a good guy like his daughter
despite the fact that he's like chain
failing his daughter
his daughter like still loves him and
cares about him and she sort of
understands that in a sense it's not his
fault and he's like a decent human being
he just can't control the gambling and
so that's actually what makes uh episode
six so powerful is because
that's the first time that we see him
actually being like morally deficient
and that's what makes it so devastating
is that this is a good dude who's got
like you know a problem that he's got an
addiction which sort of like isn't his
fault
and there are things that he can do kind
of better for sure but like in episode
six we kind of see like the moral decay
that he has and we kind of know that
morally he's like a good person and so i
think it's sort of a really good
portrayal of addiction because people
with addictions aren't bad people
they're just
they're normal people who have these
kinds of addictions
uh i think the show also does a good job
of like demonstrating what it's like to
grow up with a parent who has an
addiction so we kind of see this in his
daughter because like
um you know she kind of she kind of
knows what to expect and so you we see a
lot of like you know impulsive decisions
that he makes he gets super frustrated
when he loses but he can't kind of stay
away and one of the saddest things that
i've i've worked with i'm going to use
that phrase a lot today but one of the
most challenging things or saddest
things that i've worked with is like
kids of parents who have addictions
because the kid kind of knows like that
the parent just can't be relied on until
the addiction gets under control
and so when i work with with parents who
have addictions you know fixing the
addiction is step one
but unfortunately like that's just step
one and what we also have to do is
repair the relationship with the child
so i think kind of in conclusion you
know giuhun is someone who's like low on
money like has this impulsivity has this
like future discounting problem where he
can't make like good long-term decisions
for himself he'll just randomly like you
know dye his hair red
and it can be pretty devastating on on
the children of people with addictions
which is like just a sad truth
if you're someone you know who falls
into this kind of category where like
you can't help but make you know bad
decisions that are like short-term gain
i strongly strongly encourage you this
is something you all are going to hear a
lot like if you relate to gihon and you
have these kinds of problems i would
recommend that you like go and get
evaluated or supported by a mental
health professional another important
thing to remember here is that
um just another kind of disclaimer is
that
you know remember that psychiatric
illness is not binary so like people
will get a diagnosis and we sort of
treat it as binary right either you
get diagnosed with an addiction or you
don't get diagnosed with an addiction
whereas the truth is that like addiction
is like a continuous spectrum
and when we sort of establish a
diagnosis is when it sort of crosses a
particular threshold but even if you're
someone who doesn't have like as
impaired of a life like if an addiction
that you have or an addictive behavior
you have hasn't screwed over your life
as much as giuhun's screwed over his
life you can still go get professional
help for it right if you're someone
who's like highly impulsive and like you
can't stay away from a particular thing
that's bad for you
even if you're able to maintain like
this is kind of the idea of a
functioning alcoholic
um even if you're able to maintain like
a decent life and like decent family
stuff decent career stuff you should
still consider getting help around it
so that's
and his is is an addiction okay
next up we have
say bjork
[Music]
i i don't know how to pronounce this
right so she's someone who um as best as
i could tell and i'm still not entirely
100 sure about this
escaped from north korea right tried to
like uh reassure her brother so we see
like early on that her brother's in an
orphanage and she's trying to like
figure out a way to get her mom smuggled
into north korea i mean out of north
korea
um so she sort of drops her brother off
at the orphanage or her brother is
staying at an orphanage and she's trying
to make things happen if you kind of
like look at her she like doesn't smile
much right she doesn't like relate to
other people she's kind of a loner she
distrusts people
um she kind of keeps to herself
and uh then what what we'll see like a
couple of scenes where like she's kind
of quiet and reserved except for a few
situations so one really illustrative
scene is when she goes to like the i
don't know what they're called but like
the people who will
smuggle people out of north korea and
he's kind of like yeah sorry like i
wasn't able to help and then she's like
like gets very very like there's she
becomes kind of unstable and like you
know burns him with hot tea and we kind
of see that pattern again and again like
throughout the show where she's sort of
like calm and reserved and she seems
like in control of her emotions except
when there's like an explosion of
emotion and some degree of like
emotional instability
and that she has a lot of
trouble like trusting people
so i think she if we kind of go back to
our list of you know what our what our
diagnoses are i think she bears features
of an attachment disorder so this is
going to be kind of tricky to understand
um but what we're we're going to kind of
try our best
so
what tends to happen when people are
traumatized early in life is that the
trauma can manifest in different ways
so we've done research for example on
like cases of like genocide in a
particular country right where not
everyone who experiences some kind of
shared traumatic event necessarily has
the diagnosis of ptsd
so traumatic experiences or emotional
abuse or things like that can manifest
later in life in a variety of different
ways so for some people it manifests as
ptsd but i think say bjork is like a
good example of what seems to me like
attachment issues
so then the question kind of becomes
like what what is it what is attached
what are attachment issues
so
uh there have been a group of
researchers that
you know really looked at something
called attachment theory and attachment
theory is kind of
an exploration of how human beings form
connections
and so in situations where
children grow up with parents who are
like emotionally supportive and most
importantly like emotionally mirroring
they tend to develop healthy attachment
styles and so what that sort of means
just to give you guys kind of an example
is like when i'm growing up and i'm a
one-year-old child
i don't really understand what i feel
right like one-year-olds can't they
don't even understand what they feel and
they certainly can't articulate their
feelings they can barely talk
so how does a child understand like make
sense of the world and understand like
how they feel they do it through
mirroring so when a child you know trips
and falls down if the parents express
concern and support the child learns a
couple of important things one is that
like the facial expression of the parent
tells the child whether they should be
worried or not and you guys may have
seen this where if a child trips and
falls and everyone around them laughs
the kid will like get up and laugh too
and they'll feel totally fine
if the child trips and falls and
everyone panics then the child will
start crying right so what the child
feels is actually determined by
um
sort of the facial expressions of people
around them
and so what happens in healthy
attachment is that a child grows up and
like you know when they get hurt
the parents around them will express
concern they'll be emotionally
supportive so not only does the child
understand what they feel they also come
to understand that the world is like a
safe and secure place because when i
trip and fall down and people like treat
me with like love and respect and care i
begin to see the world is like a place
that is going to be supportive of me
right and if the place is if the world
is going to be supportive of me then i
can learn to trust the world and trust
people in the world
the flip side of that is people who grow
up in households where parents are not
good at emotional mirroring are not good
at support or like traumatic kind of
situations
in which case the world is not a a safe
place
you know you're growing up in a pvp zone
versus a pve zone and so like the pvp
world is like very dangerous because
people can attack you right people
parents like when kids trip and fall and
you've got a parent who yells at the
child for being an idiot and being
clumsy suddenly like when the child
needs emotional support and tlc instead
what they're getting is like blame and
like anger and frustration
from the parent
and so that's the kind of stuff that
sort of results in attachment disorders
and so disorders of attachment kind of
have a couple of like key and common
features there's a lot of specificity to
what i'm saying
um but the the key features are like a
difficulty like trusting people right a
difficulty with like social problems and
like a difficulty with like emotional
ability so people with attachment uh
problems have difficulty forming
relationships with other people and like
learning how to trust other people so i
see this a lot for example in people who
have difficulty forming like romantic
relationships
so some people may be able to like date
initially but then they just can't like
let their guard down and be vulnerable
with another human being they can't
trust another human being to like
take care of them so instead they have
to always have their walls up and can't
form real authentic connections and what
we see with say bjork is that she's not
like a bad person or anything or maybe
are you can argue argue that she is but
um you know she seems like a decent
human being who just grows up or
believes that the world is like a
distrustful place and where did she kind
of learn that she learned that probably
like presumably growing up in north
korea and like you know people not
caring for her and like you know she's
like just inherently distrustful and we
kind of see this in people who have a
problems of disordered attachment
and so as a result they have a lot of
difficulty like forming relationships
with other people so if you're someone
who kind of grew up you know in a
situation where
your parents maybe weren't consistently
supportive
or you grew up kind of like in in today
you sort of think that
the world is like an unsafe place like
operating in the world gives you a lot
of anxiety like you can't trust people
you can't count on people
you can't
form connections with people because you
have your guard up that sort of makes me
think about attachment related issues
there isn't a discrete diagnosis here by
the way but i still think that it's
worthwhile to kind of go see a licensed
mental health professional
okay
so that's say bjork
attachment issues
so next what we're going to do
is actually
talk about
a less
kind of more of a side character
because i think it forms a nice contrast
next person that we're going to take a
look at
is jion
so this is a character that once again
is like kind of quiet right so she kind
of keeps to herself she's not sort of
quite as volatile as um say bjork is
but she's sort of a loner she doesn't
really care about performing connections
she's kind of afk
um she just sort of joins up when she
has to
and she's just kind of like afk and kind
of chilling right so she doesn't like
say a whole lot she doesn't do a whole
lot she's not like particularly playful
she's not particularly like
she's not even like paranoid in the way
that sabjak is she's just sort of like
afk
the one interesting thing is that she
kind of um gets super pissed off when
she like talks to the religious dude or
when the religious dude like talks about
religious stuff
so if we're kind of looking at what her
diagnosis is i think this is a really
good example of like ptsd or even
complex ptsd
so this is a good example of i think the
show does a good example does a good job
of demonstrating how trauma can manifest
in different ways
so people with ptsd or complex ptsd tend
to feel empty they kind of feel
worthless they feel different from other
people they feel like nobody understands
them and as a result they avoid
relationships
there's also features of kind of like
dissociation when it comes to ptsd
and people when they sort of feel empty
on the inside and they have trouble like
relating to other people and if we kind
of look at her story she kind of talks
about how her dad was sort of very
abusive um it's not really clear in what
way her dad is abusive but i kind of got
the vibe that he was sexually abusive to
her and was like super religious about
it
um and so she also like lost her mom and
things like that and so people who have
been traumatized like consistently
so this is where complex ptsd the
difference between ptsd and complex ptsd
is that you can get sort of sexually
assaulted once or get you know in a car
accident or something like that and you
can develop ptsd from a single event
what some people have started to
discover is that when people get
repeatedly traumatized like over and
over and over again it manifests
slightly differently from like regular
ptsd and that's when we sort of explore
things like complex ptsd
so based on her history it really sounds
like she grew up in a repeatedly
traumatic environment and i think they
actually do a very good job of like
showcasing some of the features of
complex ptsd
and so she kind of feels like you know
she can't connect to people she's sort
of like dissociative which is sort of
what that
going afk is right she doesn't feel a
whole lot of things and one of the
things that she really they do a good
job of portraying is like she's kind of
afk except when it comes to religious
people and so if we kind of look at it
you know i think that's a really good
example of like a trigger right so she
was abused by someone who was hyper
religious and so as a result like any
time someone is religious around her she
like gets really really pissed off and
it triggers like a lot of negative
feelings
another thing to remember about uh
trauma is that in my work as a
psychiatrist i think about trauma as the
great chameleon
of psychiatry so it can look like
depression it can look like bipolar
disorder it can look like just feeling
afk or being empty
um
you know it can feel like people are
just like damaged and don't have
self-worth so they have and this is kind
of important so like when someone gets
traumatized at a young age their sense
of like their internal sense of self
gets like damaged they don't really feel
like a person on the inside and that's
kind of hard to describe if you feel
like a person on the inside that'll be
like confusing for you and if you've
been traumatized and don't feel like a
person on the inside like that may make
sense and you may be very confused by
people who have this like sense of
positive identity
and so if you if your sense of
self-worth on the inside is damaged and
you don't know who you are basically
it's hard to have a goal right it's hard
to have a purpose because in order to
like have a purpose you have to be a
main character you have to know what you
are on the inside it's also hard to have
relationships because a relationship
involves like a connection between two
people and if you're kind of empty on
the inside and you don't know who you
are in the inside it's really hard to
have a relationship with someone because
like you don't really understand who you
are
um so i think trauma is kind of
interesting because it's it really can
masquerade as all kinds of different
things right they can masquerade as
people being checked out or some people
may look at gee on and say like oh she's
depressed
but i really think it's a good kind of
media portrayal like a simplistic kind
of hyperbolic portrayal of uh
cptsd or complex trauma
so the last thing that i'll kind of
point out is that like so people with
complex trauma tend to feel like they're
worth less than other people and so she
kind of you we even sort of see this
where sometimes people with trauma will
also have suicidality and she has no
problem um
you know sacrificing herself
for someone else and so this in a show
is kind of like very positive right like
we feel like oh my god she's like so
like she's such a good person unless she
like sacrifices herself for her friend
and we'll get to that relationship in a
second
but i think there's unfortunately a
sinister undercurrent to this which is
and she even sort of says this right
she's like your life is like worth more
than mine is and the really sad thing is
she may say she kind of says like oh i
don't have parents anymore and i don't
have anyone in life and so you may even
objectively like get on the same page
with her and say like okay leah she
doesn't have someone right like um say
bjork has to stay alive for her brother
and has to stay alive for her sister but
the really kind of there's a really sad
undercurrent to this which is like why
doesn't she have anyone right
and so she's like presumably in her like
early 20s i would guess or whatever but
because of her trauma because of the way
that she was raised she's actually like
not able to form connections so she's a
loner and it sort of becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy the other
interesting thing about trauma is even
if she did have people and so this is
where you know
if we if she was a real person
we may actually discover that she does
have people in her life maybe she has a
boyfriend maybe she has people who care
about her maybe she has siblings but
people with trauma feel so worthless on
the inside that it feels like they don't
have anyone because they can't actually
connect to anyone because no one really
understands them and they don't
understand other people
so that's jion the next thing that we're
going to kind of talk about for a second
is broken relationships that form
between traumatic people or traumatized
people so this is something that i've
seen a lot
as a psychiatrist so if you look at like
two of the people who have trauma
they basically band together right so
like there's ceb yakuza loner and g on
who's a loner and so like they end up
kind of pairing up and this is something
that is at the same time beautiful and
sad i've seen this is so much especially
in like residential trauma treatment
where people who feel broken like i feel
like half of a person
and what happens is i tend to gravitate
towards other people who are also like
broken so i've seen this in in a way
it's kind of beautiful that like two
people with trauma both feel broken they
feel like half of a person so they can
sometimes feel whole when they get
together
and so i've seen a lot of like there's
almost like a sense of kindred spirits
where when you've been traumatized and
you don't really know who you are and
you feel like fundamentally broken on
the inside
the they're like all the normal people
that you can't relate to but there are
all there are people who are just as
broken as you are and like there's a
sense of like kindred spirits and
there's this idea that two halves make a
whole
and these these are two people that you
know are both confused by like the other
people around them right they can't
connect with them but there's actually
like a connection that can form between
two people who've been traumatized
unfortunately while these people are
drawn to connections with each other i
would say that like these relationships
tend to be very very difficult because
the truth is that two people who have
difficulty forming connections
even though they're drawn to each other
and they can understand each other
it's been my experience that a lot of
these relationships don't end up working
out well
and that's just because like both people
are like not
um
you know a lot of times they just like
can't connect with each other or there
are other kinds of problems that arise
where it doesn't seem to work out so you
can look at uh you know one study for
example that looked at borderline
personality disorder which also um
oftentimes has a root in trauma and that
like one of the treatments for
borderline personality disorder is to
actually form a stable relationship with
like someone else who's healthy and over
a period of two years that seems to
really help the people with bpd
so unfortunately you know the the kind
of fact remains or i don't know if it's
really a fact i don't really have good
statistics around this but
um you know what i've kind of seen is
that people who get together when
psychiatrically hospitalized and that
may have nothing to do with the trauma
it may have to do more with sort of the
fact that they're at their low point and
their mental illness is like very very
active and bad at that point
that's probably a bigger factor
when when two feet people feel broken
and they kind of connect sometimes it
doesn't turn out to be the best
relationship
i've also seen the flip side of it so
this is like a good example in terms of
addictions so a lot of people will like
fall in love and rehab and that can be
really fantastic
and i think i've seen a lot of people
who are in recovery and can really
support each other two people who are in
recovery and like working on sobriety
together and they start a romantic
relationship and they actually end up
like getting married and like staying
sober and together for like three
decades i've seen those kinds of
relationships and they can truly be
amazing
unfortunately most of the relationships
that i've seen i'm just talking about
anecdotally here as an addiction
psychiatrist who does like inpatient and
also residential treatment a lot of
times those relationships kind of don't
work out so if you're someone who's been
traumatized
you know it sort of makes sense that
you'll sometimes be drawn to other
people with trauma but just be careful
about that relationship you know
recognize that that's going to be
something that could be hard for you and
could be hard for the other person and
that it's going to take a lot of like
perseverance and compassion for that
relationship to really work
okay
to be fair most relationships in general
don't last that's very true right so i
think there are a lot of caveats to what
i'm saying i just wanted to kind of
comment on this phenomenon that i've
observed
that sometimes people who are broken are
attracted to other people who are broken
and they can feel like a real and
genuine connection in that way whether
that's a good thing or a bad thing
honestly like i don't know the data i've
seen both scenarios when it works out
it's actually like really amazing and
unfortunately most of the times it seems
like it doesn't work out great
trauma bond is serious absolutely right
so that's where i think it's important
to remember that like you can bond with
someone who's
had a trauma
without muddying that relationship with
some kind of romance or sexuality right
like you can absolutely form a healthy
trauma bond and that's what we see in in
treatment right people will like get
really close to each other in recovery
is a good example of like very very
powerful bonds that are formed because
people are like walking a journey
together that's difficult
and sometimes they'll screw up that bond
by like
contaminating it with other
relationships like going into business
together or romance
um
okay
so let's move on
so next up
we have
um
hold on
did i yeah
so next up we have migno
i don't know exactly how to pronounce
her name juan migno
so she's actually one of my favorite
characters in the game
in squid game so she's like super
friendly right smiles a lot she like
figures out what the power dynamic is
and goes for the gangster she um her
her relationships tend to like turn on a
dime so she'll be like super into
someone one second and she'll be like
not into them the next second she's also
like quite manipulative and she's also
hypersexual so she's like willing to
have sex at the drop of a hat
and so i don't know if you guys have a
have a guess for this
but i think she is unfortunately um the
classic media portrayal of a a woman
with borderline personality disorder
so this is something that i think is
actually like really unfortunate in
media portrayals but when people like
try to demonstrate borderline
personality disorder they always make it
a woman and there is evidence that women
are more likely to be diagnosed with
borderline personality disorder than men
but i do think basically it's like it's
part of it's propagating something that
may be statistically true but sometimes
i find it to be sort of like a harmful
stereotype
so a lot of shows will or movies will
have like kind of this idea of the crazy
ex-girlfriend
and that person will have features of
borderline personality disorder so bpd
is characterized by a pattern of
unstable relationships mood fluctuations
like somewhat manipulative behavior in
the psychological defense mechanism
called splitting
so we're going to talk about splitting
for a second so people with bpd the core
problem here is that they their sense of
self like other traumatic illnesses so
some people who
experience trauma early in life will
develop something like bpd so you can
have kind of attachment issues you can
have ptsd you can have complex ptsd you
can have bpd you can also have like
light versions of all of these things so
sometimes as psychiatrists we won't
diagnose someone with a disorder but
they sort of have
what we'll call a borderline personality
structure or organization so it's not
that this person really has an impaired
function like they can function normally
in life but they kind of have the
psychology psychological vulnerabilities
that someone with bpd has
so these people
to other people they feel very
manipulative and what's going on here
the core issue with bpd is that
these people
someone with bpd's identity and i'm
oversimplifying here okay so you guys
have to take this with a grain of salt
who they are is determined by how
they're treated so if i'm treated with
love and respect i have a lot of self or
esteem but if i'm treated like crap i
will feel very very worthless and so
this may be true to a certain degree of
all people right like if i get bullied
by my entire school like i'm gonna feel
like crap and if i get treated like the
best thing since sliced bread by my
entire school i will feel really amazing
right i'll feel like egotistical and
i'll feel great about myself so this is
a common element of like human
psychology but with bpd people they're
very very sensitive to it so you know
they will feel amazing one day and and
like the next day if people like are
slightly like if they don't if someone
doesn't answer their texts texts or you
know people don't like respond to them
the way that they kind of want to be
responded to their mood can really
really crash so this sort of results in
mood fluctuations they're not bipolar
like a lot of times people with bpd will
like be diagnosed or think that they're
bipolar because their mood fluctuates
very very rapidly but their mood is
heavily influenced by the way that
they're treated
they also end up being manipulative but
i don't think that a lot of this is like
conscious manipulation what these people
have sort of learned from like the way
they've evolved and adapted is that if i
feel loved like i'll you know if i can
get someone to express
love towards me
i will feel loved and i will be someone
who is worth loving so their identity is
determined by the way that people treat
them and so what that sort of results in
is like a lot of like manipulative
behavior so if i'm feeling unloved on a
given day
i may express thoughts of suicide or i
may like express thoughts of like you
know i'll do things that will will make
people care about me right so i'll kind
of like you know i'll do things that
kind of evoke in other people like a
desire to like take care of me and love
me and like treat me with like you know
like kid gloves and hug me and protect
me and all that kind of stuff so what
these people will do is that that
um i think a lot of people who are in
relationships not necessarily romantic
relationships but with people uh with
with bpd
is they'll feel like
stuck and emotionally manipulated into
kind of loving someone so we'll also see
this with like parent-child
relationships where parents who have bpd
will like
sort of emotionally hold their children
hostage so if you're in a relationship
with someone with like a borderline
organization what that person feels like
is what i would call an emotional
hostage because if you try to pull away
from them if you try to like set
boundaries with them if you start to be
unavailable to them they'll escalate
very rapidly and like force you into
caring about them and not leaving and
not taking a break we also see this in
some unfortunate cases with with
treaters
who when they go on vacation like the
person kind of falls apart or the the
psychiatrist or therapist will feel like
if i go on vacation this person is going
to like get hospitalized or may try to
commit suicide so unfortunately people
with bpd will sometimes hold people
emotionally hostage and that's where
that kind of manipulation comes from
um there's also a lot of like splitting
going on so what this means is that
if they're interacting with some people
they will love some people and hate some
people so we'll see that you know for
example the person with borderline
personality disorder who's hospitalized
so these are people who are at the
lowest of their lows so we don't we try
not to judge them for this because it's
sort of not their fault they're under a
lot of stress what they'll do is they'll
like either love the doctor and hate the
nurse or they'll hate the doctor and
love the nurse and so what they tend to
do is like create kind of social strife
by
kind of idealizing some people and
really like viewing other people very
negatively so we'll also see this in in
other social situations where like
they'll think that one person is is like
you know amazing and perfect and awesome
and everyone else is like terrible and
crappy or things like that
so that's splitting so they basically
think very black and white about their
relationships
and what this kind of results in when
you have these high mood fluctuations
when you're very like sensitive
to
other people's opinions of you when you
kind of hold people emotionally hostage
when you try to manipulate people into
treating you a particular way or not
abandoning you right so a lot of times
people with bpd will have a fear of
abandonment and we kind of see that in
mino in the way that she works with like
the gangster where she's like promise me
that you'll never leave me promise me
that you'll go through this so people
with bpd will oftentimes like try to
extract promises of fidelity from other
people
and they'll kind of like you know try to
guilt-trip you because you promised you
promised you promised i gave you
everything that you wanted please love
me please don't ever leave me there's
kind of this fear of abandonment and
what it does is it it kind of drives
people like a little bit crazy so it can
be really hard to be on the other end of
that relationship
and so what that results in is very
unstable relationships so people with
bpd in unfortunate cases will kind of
use sexuality to feel loved um they'll
like love and hate very quickly and
they'll sort of result in like unstable
relationships so she's kind of a good
example of sort of the worst
characteristics of people with bpd
one thing i think it's another important
disclaimer to toss out here that she's
kind of like
um
kind of a textbook or a fictional case
of like the worst aspects of bpd the
good news is that
i've also worked with a lot of
borderline personality disorder folks
i actually really really enjoy working
with them it's some of the most
gratifying work that i've ever done
and i think they respond really really
well to some like eastern principles of
like discovering who you truly are
um the best evidence-based treatment of
bpd in my opinion is dialectical
behavioral therapy which has a large
component of like mindfulness and like
discovering who you are
um so the good news is that you know if
you have bpd in real life you're not
you're not like her this is what i think
is really unfortunate about media
portrayals of bpd is they like make them
seem so imp unsympathetic and then if
you're like oh my god i'm this kind of
person like you're not this kind of
person she's like an absolute fictional
version of bpd and the real truth is
that like people who have a borderline
organization or people who have bpd are
actually like wonderful awesome people
they can be like wonderful people who
just have these kinds of vulnerabilities
and tendencies
but with help and support and patience
they can like you know they don't have
to give in to those tendencies they can
actually conquer it and there are
studies that have been done that have
shown that essentially like bpd can be
like
uh you know with good treatment and
stable relationships someone who acts
this way in a year or two can actually
no longer meet criteria for bpd the
behaviors kind of go away um you know
not necessarily completely but they're
like no longer pathologic
so that's her
next up
we have uh
doksu
[Laughter]
who's like our gangster right so he like
backstabs people
he's a criminal he's dominating like he
doesn't really mind killing people
um you know he's kind of like the first
villain in the show and so if we kind of
go to our you know what's his diagnosis
hopefully you guys can get this one but
it's sociopathy
so oh so he's a great example
of um
what i would call a low functioning
sociopath
so this is where we got to talk a little
bit about sociopathy so sociopathy is
sort of characterized by like a lack of
empathy
for other human beings
so what this kind of means is that they
don't like you know we have most human
beings have sort of this internal moral
compass
that helps us understand like what is
right and what is wrong and people who
are on the anti-social personality
disorder spectrum um which is also like
sociopathy the terms i'm going to use
them interchangeably
basically like don't have that internal
sense or the internal sense is not as
strong as as it is in other people so
sociopathy is also a spectrum so much
like uh bpd you know there are some
people who are like very far on the
bottom end of the spectrum and are
highly sociopathic and then on the other
end of the spectrum are people who are
very empathic and not sociopathic at all
and so people who are kind of like at
the bottom end of the spectrum or maybe
the high end of the spectrum if you're
talking about sociopathy as a positive
variable
um you know people who are very
sociopathic let's put it that way are
people who like don't lack empathy and
then like will do like cruel things to
other people so
uh sociopathy in childhood is caught
called conduct disorder and like some of
the you know more diagnostic features of
conduct disorder are things like
torturing animals and like setting fire
to things so people who are high on the
sociopathy spectrum or kids with conduct
disorder you know will will sort of not
respect property they won't respect
other people they'll sometimes inflict
harm on other people conduct disorder
isn't necessarily sociopathy though a
lot of times that also has to do with a
traumatic upbringing
um but sociopathy is sort of
characterized by a lack of empathy and
is like generally speaking the
traditional villain so most villains in
tv shows and movies and things like that
tend to be sociopaths there's an
important um point to understand about
sociopathy research which is that a lot
of the sociopathy research comes from
prisons so like people who have what i
would call low functioning sociopathy
tend to wind up being criminals
and so i think honestly sociopathy in a
weird way kind of gets a bad name
because most of the research is not done
on normal people who have sociopathic
characteristics it's actually done on
criminals so when we think about
sociopathy we're sort of studying like
the worst sociopaths and generalizing
things about sociopathy
so
this is where
if you really look at it like there are
a lot of
professions that
where people are like highly functional
and can live normal lives
and some of these professions will
correlate with higher amounts of
sociopathy we're not talking like at the
super high levels
where it really kind of becomes a
disorder
but if you look at things like
executives even if you look at things
like uh professions like sometimes
surgeons or psychiatrists sometimes they
can actually test highly on the
sociopathy scale compared to the normal
population and the reason for that is
that these professions require
some amount of like emotional numbness
right like if you
um are a psychiatrist and like you have
patients that are committing suicide
because like that's the population you
work with right like that sort of what i
mean that's just what's going to happen
if you're a psychiatrist and you work
with like the sickest populations that
have the highest chance of suicide then
you are going to be dealing emotionally
with a lot of suicide as a result you
have to learn how to numb your emotions
to kind of survive in those sorts of
situations
ceos kind of also have to do this sort
of thing right like if you have to lay
off a thousand workers
it's protective or adaptive to be like a
little bit callous at heart
the other thing to remember is that
sociopathy is like a part of
human evolution right so these people
exist and if they exist there must be
some kind of adaptive advantage to it
and we kind of see that in in in uh
squid game because like this person
really excels in this competitive
cutthroat environment so this is also
where you'll see um people with like
high sociopathy sort of excel in
particular environments so he also you
know is isn't worried about killing
people he doesn't really demonstrate
remorse he forms alliances not out of
care or support or anything like that
all of his alliances form out of
self-gain
and so he's also kind of like this
classic demonstration of like a male
sociopath so this is also where we have
to toss in another disclaimer which is
like if you get diagnosed with
sociopathy it does not mean you are this
person right this is a caricature he's a
fictional representation he's like socio
the worst characteristics of sociopathy
like embodied within a fictional
character
this is also where generally speaking
in media portrayals you'll have women
who get
women's tend to exemplify the worst
characteristics of bpd
and men tend to exemplify the worst
characteristics of sociopathy
so next up
we've got
geon
[Music]
so this is a dude who's kind of quiet
um doesn't really form a whole lot of
very close connections he's kind of like
he's not quite afk but he's like kind of
like neutral he's going to try to win um
you know you can kind of see i think
they do a really good job of showing and
not telling here where like you know the
main character gihon is so happy to see
um
uh
sorry this is uh
so uh
seng wu is is smart he's successful um
he's uh
you know he's in finance
he got into some kind of problem with
like fraud and embezzlement he's sort of
desperate he's kind of image conscious
he winds up being you know i guess the
second villain
and i think they do a really good job of
um
catching a lot with his facial
expressions whereas like gihon is like
very genuine and wants to be friends and
like wants to work together and sengwoo
is kind of like holding back a little
bit right he he works together out of
uh he forms alliances also out of self
gain
and there's the episode where
he kind of has the the idea of like the
sugar game and like you know what we're
gonna have to do
um and he's sort of he remembers that in
the sugar game like okay like you should
have an easy shape right so but instead
of like sharing this information with
his team he actually goes ahead and like
says hey we should split up so he
actually subtly tries to sandbag and
kind of actually get gehun killed right
so he
his diagnosis is actually sociopathy as
well
so he's a good example of what i would
call a high functioning sociopath
so this is where
like i kind of said that if you look in
some industries people test highly on
the sociopathy scale
and so he feels some degree of of
empathy right he's not completely like
cold hearted and and numb he does some
amount of caring but he actually shares
a lot of features with the the gangster
right he's gonna like kind of throw
people under the bus he's gonna go for
himself first
he's going to try to form alliances for
self gain he's very competitive he's
sort of immoral and has this ends
justifies the means kind of attitude i'm
going to do whatever it takes to win um
he'll sort of throw people under the bus
and frankly i've seen a lot of this in
finance so when you work in investment
banking and private equity unfortunately
there's a lot of like cut throatness to
it right some people are kind of
cutthroat they're gunners we actually i
also see this in medicine and doctors
can sometimes test higher on the
sociopathy scale than the average person
so in medical school you'll have some
students who are like gunners like
they're going to be number one and if
they have to leave a trail of like you
know failing medical students behind
them they're willing to do that they're
the kind of people that will ask for
notes but if you ask them they'll be
like sorry i don't have them and they'll
actually lie to your face they'll also
do things like throw people under the
bus so we'll see this kind of in in you
know different kinds of work
environments you may know people
at work who will be the first to claim
credit but they're like hyper
competitive and they'll kind of throw
you under the bus if you do something
wrong
so i think this is a better example of
what i call kind of high functioning
sociopathy so these are people who are
less empathic or kind of highly
competitive and we can see how
sociopathic characteristics can result
in like you know people
succeeding in the world
right and we can also remember that
saying woo despite being the top of his
class and the pride of his his like
neighborhood
went to uh you know nationals
uh seoul university or whatever nsu is
and then
rose in finance was super successful and
then got into selling fraud and
embezzlement kind of stuff right and so
if we look at the industry of finance
like no one's that surprised that people
in finance are doing like shady stuff
right you can look at like the gamestop
stuff the gme stuff uh citadel
securities and robin hood and like
people are just doing shady stuff in
finance people did shady stuff in
finance and enron they did shady stuff
in 2007 2008 and so like a lot of people
like there are some industries where
these high functioning people who are
sort of higher on the sociopathic scale
but are actually really smart and don't
wind up in jail where you find these
people
so he's kind of an example of a high
functioning sociopath the good news is
that they do feel empathy right and
sengwu isn't all evil he's not like the
gangster and i've also worked with a lot
of sociopaths who do feel empathy want
to try to be good people and they can
actually be like very good people i
think he is also a negative portrayal of
it where when you kind of when you put
him into the pressure
of a life and death situation he's going
to choose himself first and they do a
good job if you watch his like facial
expressions of like between the first
episode and the last episode his
internal struggle and sometimes he helps
people and sometimes he doesn't right
and so they kind of do a good job of
that and if you're even if you're a
high-functioning sociopath i've worked
with a lot of a lot of them i mean they
don't really meet criteria for the
illness they're not really don't have
the disorder but they kind of have a low
empathy sort of enz justifies the means
kind of makeup right they're kind of
machiavellian
the good news is that they can actually
be very good people and can like care
for other people as well
so next up
we've got o ilnam
so this is the other guy who sort of
turns out to be the villain right so
he's like he's kind of got this weird
situation where
he apparently is very financially
successful
um
and he's got a brain tumor and his time
is running out
and he's a very likable and genuine guy
uh
you know like we all love him we're
rooting for him we feel compassion
towards him once again ganbu episode six
is like the episode where like
you know he gets taken advantage of and
it's like the highest amount of feels in
the show i think it's clearly like the
best episode in the show
and so he kind of comments that people
without money and tons of money are the
ones that like kind of feel empty inside
and he's decided to orchestrate the
squid game to try to feel alive right
which sounds super super screwed up
so what's his diagnosis so he certainly
has features of sociopathy but this is
where i'm gonna actually go ahead oh
i'm gonna go ahead and
debate y'all a little bit and then i'm
gonna add something else
so i'm gonna add what i call buddha
syndrome
and this is what i'd say this guy really
exemplifies
so buddhist syndrome
is something that the reason i call it
that is because it was actually
characterized like by buddha
so buddha was a guy who had everything
and ended up feeling empty and unhappy
right so he was loved he was respected
he was powerful he was wealthy and then
he kind of
wakes up one day and sort of like feels
empty inside and he's like this does not
bring me happiness
so he sacrifices everything he gives
everything up um you know so it takes a
slightly different approach from o'il
nam who oil nom is like in order to feel
alive i'm gonna create the squid game
and like you know fight for my life and
if you guys even look at like red light
green light you can see oil nom really
enjoys the games right he longs to feel
uh
alive in some way and so he like goes
back to his childhood and stuff like
that to try to recapture some sense of
happiness before he became rich and
before he became successful and before
he started to feel empty
and so buddha sort of described this and
what would the sort of discovered is
that like no amount of money will
necessarily buy happiness and i think
there are some issues with that but what
buddha basically discovered is that like
suffering and contentment doesn't have
to do with material things now there's
some scientific research that kind of
opposes this right so if you look at
research on happiness for example that
like
happiness does correlate with material
security for sure up to a particular
point
so my personal take trying to reconcile
buddha's approach which i think there's
a lot of wisdom to
and science is that money is necessary
but not sufficient for happiness
so money will protect you
from um
you know feeling despair on some level
and feeling insecurity and can protect
you from stress
but it is not sufficient to be happy
and success and being like you know rich
in life can actually result in feeling
empty and this is something that we see
a lot within celebrities right so like
we'll see this in twitch streamers we'll
see it in celebrities we'll even see it
in trust fund babies which is like these
people seem to have everything and yet
they're not happy
and this is where personally i feel like
a little bit frustrated because it's
been my experience i've had you know
rich and privileged patients who commit
suicide um and i've had you know poor
and and like
uh you know persecuted patients commit
suicide and the sad truth is that i
think somewhere along the way as a
society we've stopped being
compassionate towards people who have
privilege and i think that there are
some good reasons for this right like
like it's not like we should devote all
of our compassion towards people who are
lucky or rich or beautiful
i do think that we should try to devote
you know a lot of our resources in our
care and our compassion in a lopsided
manner towards people who have it worse
off than people who are lucky or rich or
successful
but i i do think it's like fundamentally
wrong that we don't demonstrate
compassion towards like people who are
suffering in any way shape or form
and this is where you know as the
internet or as society we tend to have
like a very like um
love-hate relationship towards people
who are celebrities right so like a good
example of this is when robin williams
commits suicide like the whole world is
there for him but when a lot of uh
celebrities complain about being
depressed
like
like the internet will jump down their
throat they'll be like why are you
depressed what do you have to complain
of for you're so privileged you're so
attractive you're so rich you have
nothing to complain about right
um
you know it's kind of interesting but
and i i just personally like i don't
agree with that i think that as human
beings like we all deserve compassion
and is privilege a part of the equation
absolutely like i'm not saying that we
should you know prioritize everyone the
same amount
but i do think that it's kind of unfair
that like just because someone has
privilege that we sort of
allow ourselves as a society to actually
like attack them it's not just a lack of
compassion we don't treat them
you know neutrally right like what we
actually do is attack them and then it
puts them in a very interesting
situation unfortunate situation and you
guys will have seen this when we talk to
streamers is they're not allowed to
complain
and like i think one of the most
devastating things one of the most
isolating and lonely things that you can
do to someone
is not allow them to complain and not
allow them to like open themselves up
for support from other people and it's
super kind of sad and i think this is
where actually our community and twitch
has been really fantastic where you know
there are super privileged people who
have come on our stream and have shared
with the world that like their life is
not perfect and i i really love this
community because this community rises
above the judgmentalness of the internet
and we treat people like the way they
deserve to be treated right we look past
hatred we look past political
differences we look past wealth and
power and beauty and we can treat people
with compassion and i think if we
genuinely want to make the world a
better place crapping on people who are
lucky is like not the right way to move
to move uh do it
so he at the end of the day has what i
would call buddha syndrome which is that
when you're privileged you start to feel
empty in life and i much prefer buddha's
method of kind of resolving that which
is to um you know seek like the true
meaning of happiness through like
introspection and meditation and
exploration as opposed to create a game
where people have to kill each other to
survive
um you know i think there's also a theme
that is kind of lived out in saw as well
if you guys have seen the saw movies
where he's like trying to help people
discover life through like
you know
trying to kill them which i don't think
is a good thing to do
so we're gonna go ahead and pause for a
second um
and uh
you know so this has been sort of like
my exploration of squid game i think
it's a wonderful tv show it's super hype
um
and i think it actually does a really
good job of portraying
uh
you know
caricatures of mental illness so i do
think that you know if you watch these
things like i don't want y'all if you
guys don't understand these diagnoses
and haven't met people like this i don't
want you to walk away from this thinking
oh like
this is what sociopathy looks like this
is what ppd looks like this is what
addiction looks like they do a good job
of portraying it but remember that real
humans who suffer from these problems
are very very complex and have like a
lot more to them than what the show
portrays
at the same time i think the show does a
good job of showing like how good people
and bad people can struggle with like
mental health issues i think the show is
a beautiful exploration of trauma
because it shows like how trauma can
manifest in so many different ways and i
like it because i think they're doing a
good job of like de-stigma hopefully
destigmatizing mental illness now you
can absolutely make the argument that
what they're also doing is stigmatizing
mental illness which i think is probably
somewhat true especially when it comes
to things like bpd and sociopathy
so you know i i hope to part of the
reason that i'm sort of sharing this
with you all is because i thought it was
really interesting i think it's cool
that
um media is starting to really
incorporate like aspects of mental
illness into into their portrayals of
these stories i think that mental
illness is on the rise and like 30 to 50
percent of people suffer from something
or other
and um you know i think it's really neat
that like they do this
one of the things that i'm super curious
about is like how they do this like is
this something that they consulted like
a psychiatrist or a psychologist for or
is it just within the consciousness of
the people and of society that like
people know that this kind of stuff
exists and trauma can affect people in
these ways which i think would be super
cool
i did have one teacher um i didn't have
like a really close relationship with
them but there was one teacher at
harvard medical school a psychiatrist
who like consulted for tv shows and
stuff like that
and um so i i do know that that happens
so i think it's kind of neat that you
know shows are kind of exemplifying this
um
so
questions that y'all have there are a
couple of characters that i didn't get
to but frankly i'm kind of tired
if you guys want to we can do one or two
more but
yeah so in its defense i think the show
is based on a large number of people who
have done bad things absolutely so
that's a great point so remember that
this is a show that's like demonstrating
people under huge amounts of stress and
the way that i think about you know
mental illness and especially
personality disorders is that these
people can be completely normal
but when you put them under periods of
high amounts of stress some of these
deeper vulnerabilities get exposed
right like the internal weaknesses when
you're put under pressure is like when
you crack and based on your
personality organization structure it
determines the way in which you crack
ah so ali so i wasn't i can talk about
ali quickly so this ali is kind of
interesting um so the two people that i
didn't talk to
is the hyper religious guy
[Laughter]
so i think ali is a good example of what
i would call like cultural conditioning
so if you look at ali he um
has you know he like values himself less
than other people so he keeps on
addressing other people as sir he
doesn't like need respect from other
people he kind of like gets bullied by
other people right like he kind of like
is a doormat
and this is kind of interesting but i
think this is absolutely like cultural
conditioning
so the unfortunate truth is that in
india and
not just india but in india i understand
it really well
you know there used to be a caste system
where there still is a caste system it
used to be worse it's gotten better but
it's still very present
and so like people are taught like the
idea that all human beings are equal is
not something that
the average indian
at least 30 years ago grew up with
there's like a tier of quality of human
right so there's like a
a caste system and like some castes are
better than others
and you'll see this in india where
there's like the servant class and then
there's like the
the wealthy class now those are the
biggest things
and so you know you'll have one
household that has like five people
living there and then they'll have like
eight to nine servants and the servants
get paid you know very very little
amounts of money like they don't aspire
too much and everyone just sort of
accepts that
that you know like the servants will eat
in a different way i think downton abbey
is like another good example of like a
class
based representation of society right
and some people in downton abbey are
like uppity and they want to be better
than what they're what they are and some
people like think that that's really bad
so um i think it's it's basically
cultural conditioning and he's probably
like a low-caste person which is what
you tend to see so a lot of these like
low-caste people are forced to like
leave the country to look for work
elsewhere because they don't have good
prospects in their home country he's
actually not indian i think ali is
pakistani so i think in the in the
indian subcontinent you'll see in south
asia you'll see this i assume in
pakistan i just don't have a whole lot
of experience which is why i'm talking
about india you'll see it in bangladesh
too so there's a lot of for example
you know
workers that will leave the indian
subcontinent and will go to the uae
we'll go to the mena region we'll
emigrate to i guess korea and stuff like
that they're basically looking for a
better life um it's something that you
know my family did so my parents
emigrated from india and came to the
united states looking for a better life
i they were uh generally speaking higher
caste people so their ambition and their
self-respect like they understood as
human beings that they were like sort of
entitled to some amount of like success
and fair play and i think that was like
a big part of like why they emigrated
and why they became doctors and stuff
like that
and it's also where sometimes i think
it's a little bit unfortunate that
um you know when we try to look at
equality we tend to look at race which i
don't think necessarily is a bad thing
but i think there are shortcomings and i
remember uh just sharing one example i'm
not saying that we shouldn't try to have
racial equality so hopefully this won't
taken out get taken out of context but i
just want to share one example with
y'all
so um when you are south asian and you
take the medical college admissions test
in the united states
in order to to be
um
competitive you basically have to score
two points higher or what used to be two
points or maybe like 10 to 20 percent
higher
than the average applicant to have a
chance to get in so like you know the
deck is actually stacked against you if
you're south asian
so that i think sort of makes sense
because in the united states you know
you have like tons of like indian
doctors right and like you because the
people who emigrated most of the people
who came to the united states were
successful and prioritize academics so
for example like i had certain
advantages like my parents could pay for
like uh medical college admissions test
prep course right so i've got like some
systemic advantages which sort of
explain why on average like we do better
and also like the medical colleges are
trying to like not have you know 50
classes who are south asian so they sort
of like will treat south asians slightly
differently
i think the downside is that
unfortunately medical schools sort of
don't
recognize or don't have the
sophistication to account for like poor
indian people
so if you think about the indian sub
continent most of them are not didn't
grow up with the privilege that i grew
up with so i was uh basically a mentor
to a low caste indian kid a dalit
was the cast that they were in
from like south india and like
he was screwed like he had none of the
advantages that i had his parents were
poor um his mom and dad were both like
cleaning people at a hotel where they
worked
illegally for less than minimum wage and
they were actually like
victims of i think a predatory hiring
practice of like higher caste indian
people so they came to the u.s to give
opportunities for their son and they got
paid like three dollars a day plus like
room and food and and so they were
actually victims and like the dulleth
kid that i was advising like had none of
the advantages that i had but when it
comes to medical college admissions like
he checks a particular box and when he
shows up for an interview he's actually
playing with the same disadvantage that
i am so i don't actually begrudge the
disadvantage that i dealt with because
at the end of the day i still got into
medical school even though the deck is
stacked against me and that's because i
think it sort of balances out i think
unfortunately the dollar kid i mean that
kid was kind of screwed right so he gets
judged based on the color of his skin
and gets like plays at a disadvantage so
i hope that
as we really start to move towards like
more sophisticated
avenues of equality like i would love it
if society could give that kid a break
that he deserves
but going back to ali i think that ali
is just a good example of this kind of
cultural conditioning of like different
castes and different
um
you know different like a class oriented
conditioning
so
what's wrong with the caste system so
i'm not necessarily saying that the
whole ca uh
i don't know enough about the cast
system to say that it's blanketly wrong
um but i do believe that it is unfair
so i think it's like unfair when some
people grow up and are in a situation
where they like
basically are trapped
right they don't have resources they
don't have education their parents
aren't educated their parents don't
emphasize education their parents can't
earn money
um
i think that that's unfair
like i think it's unfair that some
people
are born with so many advantages and
like
i don't think that it's good for a
cultural system
to propagate inequality
and my understanding of the caste system
is that it does propagate inequality now
if you say that the cul the caste system
does not propagate inequality then i'll
accept that because i'm not an expert in
the cast system i'm a psychiatrist i'm
not a sociologist i didn't grow up in
india
right so i understand some stuff about
caste
but that's as a second generation
immigrant who grew up in east texas
so if people are going to make arguments
that the caste system is good like by
all means make those arguments and i'm
happy to listen i'm not saying i'm right
it's just my opinion and it's not
something i'm an expert in
but i do think it's like
i think like how can i say this when i
look at the dull and that's why i
mentored him right so like i tried to do
what i could to like fix it
which is gonna be like hey bro like
let me help you because
i understand this stuff and i was given
opportunities to learn
so what i think that what i think is
unfair is that i mean like we're not you
know we're not even playing in the same
game like it's like
he's playing on ping like a ping of 400
and i'm playing on like a ping of 20 and
we're competing
and you know medical schools are going
to look at us
not the same because i think medical
schools are you know people try they try
to not they on the one hand they sort of
judge people by the color of the skin
but on the other hand they also try to
recognize that like their socioeconomic
status so i personally think that
socioeconomic status is is a better
way to try to like balance things i
think it's just harder right
um but i i do think that i would like a
world where
the discrepancy between the advantages
that i was given and my dull at the
mentee were given
were less i think i think it's unfair to
him and it's my understanding and this
could be wrong that a lot of that is
propagated by cast
and if you say otherwise then by all
means
you know
tell me i'm wrong and explain it to me
if someone i would love if someone could
post a little bit if you guys think that
the cast system is good
and is helpful i'd love to see a
subreddit post about it
um so you said money is necessary but
not sufficient for happiness what is
sufficient for happiness i think
detachment
so
um devoting yourself to detachment is
the key to happiness
i think that's what buddha basically
discovered is that when people develop
detachment from expectations
and focus on the present like so it's a
present focus
devoting yourself to the action in terms
as opposed to the outcomes of your
actions and detachment i think that's
the formula for happiness
and i feel really confident about this
because i've taken people who are
miserable and i've taught them this and
they become happier
right so i'll get like ceos who are very
rich and they'll come to me and they'll
say hey
i'm unhappy can you help me and i'll say
sure
they'll say i'm depressed then i'll talk
to them i'll do a thorough diagnostic
interview where i ask them 60 questions
then i'll say you're not depressed
you're unhappy
they're like wait what what do i do
about that i'll be like let me show you
indians are in tech and doctors because
decades of diligence standing on the
shoulders of their parents sacrifices i
agree completely
right so i stand on the shoulders of my
parents everything that i am is due to
their sacrifice
so i want you guys to understand like
people look at me like i'm something
amazing i want you all to understand
that i grew up in a household with two
loving parents and i had the luxury of
spending seven years training to become
a monk without having to really worry
about paying my bills
do you guys realize how op of a start
that is
like it's one of the most op starts you
can have
and so it's my belief that if you're
someone who's born with privilege
i can still suffer by the way so i'd
appreciate some compassion when time
life is rough for me
but i believe it is my responsibility to
like take my spawn and then like build
alliances with other people who had less
advantageous spawns
right because we're in this game
together it's co-op so if i have a
really good spawn it's my job to help
people who like didn't have as good of a
spawn to even things out because that's
the only way it's going to work
actually that's not necessarily true
it's my solution so i tend to focus on
helping people directly there are lots
of people out there who will propose
political solutions passing laws
advocacy all of those things are great
too it's just not what i specialize in
so i don't know how to get a law passed
and it's my experience that you know
some of those systems like need
improvement and like the way the sausage
is made is just too complicated so i
prefer to just help i'm just going to
mentor the bella kid instead of like
lobby my congressman
not saying it's the right way it's just
what i know how to do and it's how it's
what i it's my advantage i didn't go to
law school i went to med school
so simple solution seems to be look at
income rather than ethnicity
so
here's the thing if there was a simple
solution i think someone would have
figured it out so my experience of
solving inequality
is that
a simple solution is not going to work
right like if you really look at for
example like becoming healthy
is not easy it's a multi-factorial
solution it involves exercise it
involves diet it involves meditation it
may involve coaching it may involve
therapy it may involve watching youtube
streams it may involve having um
you know a yard where you can garden it
may involve having a pet
right so having a pet correlates with
like increased life expectancy and
better mental health
so to say that
the solution to mental health problems
is just to send everyone to therapy
it may seem like a simple solution
because that's the treatment for mental
illness so like let's just send everyone
to therapy i disagree
i think the solution to mental illness
may involve therapy but it may also
involve like
getting people pets if they want one
improving social connections helping
people get off of social media
um helping people exercise helping
people like support each other
uh doing things like group coaching
where like people can learn their value
their internal sense of self-worth i
think that there's a lot of answers to
it
why is it not clearly wrong i assume
you're talking about the caste system
the short answer is i don't know
like i'm ignorant of the caste system
i'm not an expert in the caste system so
i know this sounds kind of weird
but i think a lot of people on the
internet will judge things that they
don't understand
like most people will judge things that
they don't understand so i've seen this
a lot like people will
you know this is done in kruger
101. that the more ignorant you are of
something the more simple it seems and
the quicker you are to like have an
answer
i think honestly if you look at a
website like reddit or twitter what most
people should say is i don't know like
if people were if you were actually if
the correlation between opinions and
like understanding things
was one in one 90 of twitter would be
people saying i don't know i don't know
i don't know i don't know because most
people don't know things
we're happy to have opinions about
things
it's the way our brain is wired our
brain is wired to construct the illusion
of certainty out of ignorance that's
what it does
so the reason that i don't think it's
clearly wrong is just because i don't
understand it like i like i said i think
it's wrong
but
i haven't done a thorough study of the
caste system and its advantages we may
discover that it has advantages
i do think that there's a lot of stuff
between eastern and western stuff where
western people think that they are right
whereas i disagree with that so like a
good example of that is that
in the west the individual is considered
more important than the community
so for example like you'll have
people advising each other that if you
have
it's like okay to cut off your parents
and never allow them to see your kids
because there's no such thing as
grandparents rights
right and i understand that perspective
like i get it
but in the east they value the community
over the individual and they do think
that there are things such as
grandparents rights
and all of society or at least western
society will think that like that is
objectively wrong that the parents
rights supersede the grandparents rights
i think it's just a difference of values
i don't think it's objectively wrong
it's also the side that i fall on right
so i kind of agree with that but i think
that's a good example of like
you know i don't think that there's an
objective right or wrong there i think
different societies have different value
systems and i try my best to not assume
that the value systems that i hold are
objectively correct because overwhelming
research demonstrates that for example
most of the real most of the humans in
the history of humanity do not believe
their religion after a thorough and
critical analysis of all of the
religions and then picking one
most human beings believe their religion
because that's what they were exposed to
so human beings also confuse
objective correctness with the value
system that they grew up in
you